## Character Descriptions
### Newport News Mayor Sam Wallace or Susan Wallace
Mayor Sam or Susan Wallace was elected in 2020 as mayor of Newport News, a major city in the Hampton Roads region. A native of the city, Wallace graduated from the University of Virginia with a major in Systems Engineering. Their undergraduate thesis explored the challenges of constructing clean water systems in the developing world. Intending to join the Army Corps of Engineers, Wallace joined Virginia’s Army ROTC program but ultimately received a medical discharge for depression, in part triggered by the relentless news of climate calamities emanating from the Global South.

Changing trajectories, Wallace joined the Peace Corps following graduation, working in Dhaka, Bangladesh on its urban sewage systems. They returned to the United States to work for the Natural Resources Defense Council and then began a political career, first as a union organizer at the shipyard with Local 9999, then as a city council representative, and now most recently as mayor.

Wallace is keenly aware of the long-term risks of climate change to the Navy’s installations, but also deeply concerned that the Navy might shortchange Newport News on critical shipbuilding contracts, a move that would devastate the local economy and prove disastrous for the nearly two million residents in the metropolitan region. Running on a campaign slogan of “Building for the Future,” Wallace focused their campaign on urban resilience and advocacy for long-term strategic adaptation to climate change while uncovering high-paying, green-collar jobs, beating a long-time incumbent in an upset victory.

### Representative Daryl Chase or Denise Chase
After a multi-decade career in the House of Representatives, Daryl or Denise Chase finally arrived at that apex seat in Washington for a littoral district: chair of the Seapower and Projection Forces subcommittee of the House Armed Services Committee. With every spending bill originating in the House, Chase has extensive influence on defense spending, particularly with regards to the Navy. They have built an almost unassailable base in the Hampton Roads congressional district by supporting further development and sustainment of military installations throughout the region.

Chase is also affiliated with the American Defense Project’s Super PAC, and while not legally directing its funding, does indirectly drive much of its electoral strategy.

Chase has been a staunch opponent of policies related to climate change, both disagreeing with the science and also concerned that considerations of climate change might lead to the movement of naval facilities out of Hampton Roads. They have also opposed unionization at the region’s shipyards, worried that higher costs could turn Hampton Roads into the “Detroit of the Ocean.” Witnessing the final vote on the 2005 Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) recommendations in the House, Chase saw firsthand how strategic considerations could rapidly shut down long-running military installations — and has vowed to not let history be repeated.

### Griffith Barrett Industries CEO Alexander Brewer or Alexandra Brewer
Alexander or Alexandra Brewer grew up in Biloxi, Mississippi, the descendants of sharecroppers and whose father was a banker in the growing economy of this state perched on the Gulf of Mexico. Life was pleasant if not rich, and Brewer ended up studying accounting at the Patterson School of Accountancy at the University of Mississippi in Oxford. Brewer interned at a shipyard in Gulfport, and after graduation, joined Griffith Barrett Industries (GBI) in a rotational management program.

From those early starts, Brewer ascended to the top spot of the massive defense contractor following a 25-year management career at GBI. A shrewd political operator in the cutthroat defense contracting industry, Brewer oversees a sprawling range of activities, but most importantly, the company’s shipyard in Hampton Roads, which is its largest revenue and profit center.

Now, with Hurricane Helen endangering the future of the Gerald R. Ford aircraft carrier program, it’s all hands on deck at GBI to secure as many carrier contracts as possible and guarantee the company’s revenues for a decade or more. But it’s the home front that is most challenging. Brewer insisted that GBI’s laborers return to work during the early waves of the Covid-19 pandemic, stoking tension over workplace health and safety rules. Brewer has actively worked to thwart unionization of the company’s shipyard facilities, attuned to the need to maintain the highest profit margins allowable under Pentagon rules to satisfy the demands of Wall Street. But a pro-labor president is throwing off Brewer’s equilibrium, and the future of GBI lies in the balance.

### Virginia Stripes Substacker Ryan Carmichael or Rhonda Carmichael
Ryan or Rhonda Carmichael began their career at the *Daily Press* — the daily newspaper of the city of Newport News within Hampton Roads — nearly ten years ago after graduating from the College of William & Mary with a major in Government. Over their college summers, Carmichael interned for *The Washington Post* on the metro desk, *The Virginia-Pilot* in Virginia Beach, and the *Army Times* (based in Springfield, VA), which ultimately led to a cub reporter role at the *Daily Press* after graduation. For the first five years, Carmichael reported on local issues, and they covered the last cycle of mayoral and congressional races in deeper detail.

Ambitious, Carmichael departed the *Daily Press* to begin the *Virginia Stripes* newsletter on Substack, wanting to build a local watering hole for the extensive military community in the Hampton Roads region. They have been trying to make the publication (and themselves) financially sustainable, but have struggled to find subscribers amidst tightening wallets.

While deeply traumatizing for the community, the arrival of Hurricane Helen and the legacy of its destructive wake has been the story of a lifetime. With newly-gained influence, can Carmichael transform a fleeting disaster story into a Substack career at the center of the national conversation?

### Local 9999 Union President Tobin McKinley
The McKinley star shined bright when Tobin’s great-grandfather first arrived as a young boy at Ellis Island in 1898 during the presidency of (the presumably unrelated) William McKinley. That fortuitous destiny was shattered in September 1901 with the assassination of the U.S. president by Leon Czolgosz, which coincided with a series of setbacks to the newly-arrived McKinley family, including a death from tuberculosis and one during the Spanish Flu in 1919.

McKinley’s grandfather eventually migrated down to Hampton Roads during World War II, joining the corporate ancestor of Griffith Barrett Industries (GBI) as a welder in the Allied fight against the Axis powers. McKinley’s father also joined the shipyard as a welder, and McKinley knew from an early age that their stars would be aligned with the fate of that massive gantry on the coast. They’ve now worked at GBI for more than two decades.

While always a member of the shipbuilding union Local 9999, Tobin never paid much attention to the union representing GBI’s workers until Covid-19 struck in 2020, where they watched as several colleagues succumbed to the mysterious airborne disease even as work continued on the Navy’s ships. Shocked at the lack of any resistance to return-to-work orders, McKinley was a surprise candidate in the union leadership elections — and equally surprisingly — won the presidency of the local with a campaign to radically strengthen the union’s membership and prospects. Now, as Hurricane Helen forces Hampton Roads to rebuild, McKinley wants to rebuild the union as a strong and durable force for all workers at GBI — and perhaps even beyond.

### Admiral Martin “Marty” Reid or Martha Reid
Admiral Marty or Martha Reid is a second-generation Navy veteran who deeply believes that a strong Navy will be central to America’s power projection in the 21st century. Reid was confirmed as the Chief of Naval Operations (CNO) in 2020, and is currently serving out the final year of a 4-year term, which statutorily cannot be renewed. A member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Reid is considered a likely candidate to become Chairman of the Joint Chiefs, which would cap a lifetime of military service.

Admiral Reid has sounded the alarm on the Navy’s vulnerabilities to climate change for many years, given the extensive coastal infrastructure the service uses. Reid commissioned the Navy’s first comprehensive report on the subject, a report that was widely read but barely acted upon by Congress. The current situation in Hampton Roads was foreseeable, inevitable, and ultimately infuriating.

The Secretary of the Navy has charged Admiral Reid with developing the Navy’s recovery strategy post-Hurricane Helen, and the admiral’s legitimacy — and promotion to chairman — is on the line depending on how the future of the flagship Gerald R. Ford aircraft carrier program is handled. A signed deal and the strong backing of the incumbent pro-labor president will all but ensure that this decorated sailor reaches the pinnacle of the armed forces.