## Story
The region of Hampton Roads, Virginia hosts the most vital U.S. naval installations in the world. These facilities include the **Norfolk Naval Shipyard** (NNSY), the country’s largest and oldest publicly-owned naval shipyard and repair facility; the nearly-identically-named **Naval Station Norfolk**, America’s largest naval base, which hosts half of the nation’s carrier fleet as well as dozens of other ships and nuclear-powered submarines; as well as the private shipyard operated by **Newport News Shipbuilding**, which is constructing America’s next-generation Gerald R. Ford-class aircraft carriers and owned by HII (formerly Huntington Ingalls Industries).

These three facilities are just a fraction of the massive military presence in the region, which includes the largest number of active-duty military personnel in the world at around 83,000 as well as the only foreign command in the United States, the **NATO Allied Command Transformation**.

In this riskgaming scenario, it’s 2024, and this year’s hurricane season has been the most intense in history given rising ocean temperatures. About three weeks ago, Tropical Storm Helen was identified in the Atlantic Ocean and projected to make landfall across Key West and much of south Florida. Within days, the storm accelerated to Category 4 and nearly Category 5 sustained winds, and widespread preparations were made in Florida for its impending arrival. Surprising the **National Hurricane Center**’s meteorologists, extremely warm currents along the Eastern Seaboard shifted the trajectory of Helen to the north with limited forewarning, and in a matter of just two days, the storm made direct landfall in the Hampton Roads region.

The devastation is immense. While the Navy and the Air Force were able to fly out many of their air squadrons as well as ferry thousands of military personnel out of harm’s way, the Navy’s surface fleet wasn’t so fortunate. Hurricane Helen’s intensity and sudden change in trajectory prevented the standard protocol of moving ships out to sea, and more than two dozen ships suffered catastrophic damage, including the Gerald R. Ford-class aircraft carrier *John F. Kennedy* (CVN-79), which was undergoing long-delayed final engineering reviews. Most of the region’s shipyards and drydocks also suffered extensive damage and are inoperable at this time.

For the past two weeks since Helen’s landfall, the Pentagon and local officials were engaged in emergency response operations and disaster management in concert with FEMA. Now that the immediate humanitarian crisis has subsided, hard decisions about the future of the region and the Navy’s presence have to be made. The pressure on the Navy is acute: with so many ships and facilities damaged or destroyed, maritime operational effectiveness is at a nadir during a time of intense geopolitical balancing between the United States and China.

The key question for the Pentagon, the shipyard and local officials is what future commitment to make to the Gerald R. Ford aircraft carrier program. A record-setting three-contract commitment would be an economic boon in a region rocked by heavy destruction, but the high costs of such a deal would make it exceedingly unlikely to pass the House and Senate, particularly in the context of future potential hurricanes. On the other hand, reducing the number of contracts to one or even zero would limit the region’s recovery and also circumscribe the Navy’s future effectiveness.

Increasing the challenge for all parties is growing labor tension in the wake of Covid-19 and now Hurricane Helen. Like most Southern states, Virginia is a right-to-work or open-shop state, which means that workers do not have to join a company’s union to be employed. Even so, inflation has eaten away at compensation and there’s growing interest in labor representation. A pro-labor incumbent president sees a political opportunity in a critical swing state to prove that the federal government is committed to union employment.

Everyone has the same goal, but every person has their own motivations and personal objectives. Can they collectively find a path forward that helps their interests and the nation’s? It’s Hampton at the Cross-Roads — and the future is in your hands.